Cheedeb presents The Celebrated Jumping Frog of Calaveras County and
Curing a Cold by
Mark Twain. The California Gold Rush. On January 24th 1848
John Marshall discovered gold in the
American River at Sutter's Fort California. He wasn't looking for
gold. He discovered it by chance.
This discovery changed the destiny of California. Suddenly this wild
territory of the far west
became world famous. During 1849 more than 80,000 people
arrived in California looking for gold.
They came from the United States, Europe, Central and South
America and China.
They were called gold miners, gold prospectors or simply 49ers.
A lot of 49ers were poor.
Their dream was to find gold and strike it rich.
A lot of them found gold but only a few
became
very rich and important. With the hard-working gold miners
there came saloon keepers,
gamblers, dishonest people and outlaws. It was difficult to keep
law and order in the far west.
The Celebrated Jumping Frog of Calaveras County. A letter from
the east.
One day a friend of mine from the east wrote
me a letter. He asked me to visit an old
man named Simon
Wheeler. My friend wanted me to ask Simon Wheeler about
a childhood companion.
Leonidas W. Smiley. I found Simon Wheeler sleeping by the
stove of the old tavern in
Angel's mining camp. I noticed that he was fat. His
face was simple and peaceful.
When he woke up I told him that a friend
of mine wanted to know about a childhood companion named
Leonidas W. Smiley. Simon Wheeler blocked me with his chair
in a corner of the tavern.
Then very seriously he began to tell me the story
that follows.
There was once a fellow at the mining camp named
Jim Smiley. It was the winter of 1849 or maybe
the spring of 1850. He was an unusual man. He
always bet money on anything that happened at
the mining camp and he usually won. Jim Smiley was
a very lucky man. When there was a horse race,
a dog fight, a cat fight, or a chicken fight
he always bet on them.
Exercise four. Now listen and check your answers.
Dear Mark, do you still remember me? I'm William Brown,
your friend from New York.
I want to go to California to look for gold.
My dream is to live in a mining camp in
the Sierra
Nevada mountains. Can you go to Angel's mining camp to
visit an old man named Simon Wheeler?
Simon knows my childhood friend Leonidas W. Smiley. I want
to know all about Leonidas Smiley
before I travel to California. Thank you Mark. Your friend
William.
Bets and races. Smiley owned an old horse that was
slow and sick but he won money on her.
The poor horse had asthma and other animal illnesses. At
races she had a head start because
of her health problems. Near the end of every race
she became very excited and desperate.
She galloped wildly.
Kicked her legs in the air to the sides. Raised
the dust, coughed and blew her nose.
At the end of the race she was always the
happy winner.
Smiley also had a small bulldog named Andrew Jackson. Andrew
Jackson was a lazy dog and did
nothing all day long but when Smiley bet money on
him he was at lively and ready to fight.
When there was an important dog fight at the mining
camp Andrew Jackson always grabbed the
captain between his strong teeth. He didn't let go until
Smiley won the bet.
Life in the Mining Camps
From 1848 many mining camps were established in the gold
country near the American River
and in the Sierra Nevada mountains. These camps were small
settlements. They were organized
quickly to meet the miners every day needs. A mining
camp usually had a saloon, a hotel,
a stable, a general store, an undertaker, and a bank.
Miners often paid for their food, drink, clothing, and other
things with gold dust or gold nuggets.
Brawls and fights were common and killings were not unusual.
These were tough times and camps were rough places.
Today a lot of camps have become ghost towns.
Others have grown into towns and cities such as Angels
Camp, Auburn, Grass Valley,
Jackson, Mary Posa, Nevada City, Murphy's, Placerville, and Sonora.
You can visit them and their abandoned mines when you
go to California. Take U.S. State Highway
80 to Sacramento and then take California Highway 49 to
the gold country.
Daniel Webster
Smiley found a frog one day and named it Daniel
Webster. He took it home and planned to teach
it a lot of things. For three months Smiley sat
outside his house and taught his frog
how to jump far. Daniel Webster was a clever frog
and learned quickly.
Smiley gave him a little push from behind and Daniel
Webster flew into the air like a donut.
He even turned one or two somersaults in the air.
Smiley taught his frog to catch flies.
Flies Daniel flies, Smiley shouted.
Daniel jumped up and caught the fly with his long
tongue.
Daniel Webster was the champion jumping frog of Calaveras County.
Smiley won all bets with his handsome frog. He was
very proud of Daniel Webster.
Do you have a pet frog? If you do, take
it to the Jumping Frog Jubilee.
Every year in May at Angels Camp, California, there is
an exciting frog competition.
It is called the Jumping Frog Jubilee. Frogs from far
and near can enter the competition.
The frog that can jump the greatest distance is the
winner.
A frog named Rosie the Ribitter is now the jumping
champion of the world.
In May 1986, she jumped 21 feet, 5 and 3
quarter inches, about 7 meters.
If you want more information, write to Calaveras Jumping Frog
Jubilee, Post Office Box 489,
Angels Camp, California 95222.
A stranger at Angels Camp.
Smiley kept his frog in a box with small holes
in it.
One day, a stranger came to the mining camp. He
saw Smiley holding the box.
What's in that box? As the stranger.
Maybe a parrot, maybe a canary. No, it's a frog,
answered Smiley.
The stranger took the box and looked at it carefully.
Yes, it is. Well, what's he good for?
Well, Smiley said, he's good for one thing. He can
out jump any frog in Calaveras County.
Stranger took the box again. He looked at the frog
for a long time. Then he returned it to
Smiley and said, I don't see anything special about this
frog.
Maybe you don't, said Smiley. Maybe you understand frogs, and
maybe you don't understand them.
But I'll bet $40 that he can out jump any
frog in Calaveras County.
The fellow answered. Well, I'm only a stranger here, and
I don't have a frog. I can't bet.
That's all right. That's all right. Hold my box a
minute. I'll go to the river and find a frog
for
you, said Smiley. The stranger took the box and bet
his $40. Smiley bet his $40, too,
and went to the river. The stranger sat down and
waited for Smiley.
He sat there a long time, and he began to
think. Suddenly, he took Daniel Webster out of the box
and opened his mouth. With a teaspoon, he put some
shotgun pellets into the frog's mouth.
Then he put him on the floor.
Panning for gold. The expression panning for gold was born
during the California gold rush
in 1848. The miners used a pan with a wire
net on the bottom. They separated the gold from other
materials by washing them with water. Miners usually pan for
gold in the water of the rivers.
The water of the river filled their pan with sand,
dirt, stones, and perhaps gold dust or gold nuggets.
Other miners looked for gold in caves in the Sierra
Nevada mountains, and they used a pickaxe.
These caves often became gold mines.
The big bet. After some time, Smiley returned holding a
frog and said,
Now put him next to Daniel with his front paws
in the same place. I'll give the word.
Then, Smiley said, one, two, three, go. He and the
stranger pushed the frogs from behind.
The new frog jumped forward, but Daniel didn't budge. He
tried to move his shoulders,
but he was anchored to the floor. Smiley was very
surprised and unhappy.
The stranger won the bet.
Well, he said, I don't see anything special about this
frog.
He took the money and left. Smiley looked at Daniel
for a long time. Finally, he said,
what has happened to Daniel? He looks terribly fat. He
caught Daniel by the back of his neck and lifted
him.
Cats alive! You weigh five pounds!
He turned Daniel upside down, and the frog spit out
a big number of shotgun pellets.
Now he understood what happened to Daniel. Smiley was furious.
He looked for the stranger
everywhere, but he never found him. Simon Wheeler's story ended
here.
I didn't really want to hear another story about Smiley's
best, so I got up from my chair and left.
Exercise three. Now listen and check your answers.
Dear William, I was happy to receive your letter.
I went to Angel's mining camp and found Simon Wheeler.
He told me lots of things about your
childhood companion, the Anita's W. Smiley. His first name now
is Jim. He works as a miner,
and he bets on everything that happens at the camp.
He owns a frog that is a champion jumper.
He usually wins every bet with his frog, but recently
a stranger tricked him and he lost a
$40 bet. When you come to California, I'll take you
to Angel's saloon to meet the miners.
Your friend, Mark, are you dressed like a gold miner?
Looking for gold was not easy. It was hard work
from sunrise to sunset.
Levi's Strauss was an immigrant tailor at one of the
mining camps.
He began making work pants called blue jeans or Levi's.
Blue jeans became very popular in the west.
Later on, Levi's Strauss opened a blue jeans factory in
San Francisco.
Today, in San Francisco, the Levi's Strauss offices are at
Levi's Strauss Plaza by the bay.
Animal sounds. Listen to these animal sounds and write the
number in the correct box.
The first one has been done for you.
Number one.
Number two.
Number three.
Number four.
Number five.
Number six.
Number seven.
Number eight.
Number nine.
Number ten.
Curing a cold.
The first sneeze.
When the White House of Virginia City, Nevada burnt down,
I lost my home, my happiness, my health, and my trunk.
The loss of my home and my happiness was not a problem.
A home without a mother or a sister who care for you isn't really a home.
The loss of my happiness was not a problem either.
I'm not a poet and so I'm usually a happy person.
But the loss of my good health and of my handsome trunk was a serious problem.
On the day of the fire, I caught a terrible cold.
The first time I began to sneeze, a friend told me to put my feet in hot water and then go to bed.
I did this.
The next day, another friend advised me to take a cold shower.
I did this too.
After an hour, another friend told me to eat a big quantity of good food.
So I went to a new restaurant and started to eat everything I saw.
The owner of the restaurant asked me if the people of Virginia City often had colds.
I answered that they did.
He then went outside, took down the new sign and closed the restaurant.
That day, I met another good friend.
He told me that I must drink a bottle of warm salt water.
This was the only remedy to cure a cold.
I tried it and the result was surprising.
I threw up everything I had in my stomach.
I will never drink warm salt water again.
And I will never advise anyone to do so.
I prefer being in a California earthquake than drinking a bottle of warm salt water.
This horrible remedy did not cure my cold and it made my stomach sick for some time.
I continued to sneeze violently at shoe and shoe to blow my nose
and to destroy handkerchiefs.
My suffering grew.
The remedies.
One day, I met a woman who appeared to be 150 years old.
She came from a deserted part of the far west where there were no doctors.
She had years of experience helping sick people.
She prepared a special mixture of molasses, aquafortis, oils and other strange drugs.
She advised me to drink a glass of this mixture every 15 minutes.
I only drank one glass of the mixture.
It was enough to make me crazy.
I became extremely mean and dangerous.
My mind was full of wild thoughts.
My behavior was horrible.
I was proud of being bad.
After a few days, the effect of the horrible mixture passed.
I felt a lot worse.
My cold passed from my head to my lungs.
I coughed every moment of the day and of the night.
It was impossible to sleep.
The sound of my voice frightened me.
I got worse every day.
An old friend recommended gin.
I drank it.
Then I drank gin with molasses.
Finally, I added onions.
So I had gin, molasses and onions.
The smell of my breath was terrible.
The San Francisco remedy.
I decided to travel to the countryside to improve my health.
I went to Lake Bigler with my friend Wilson.
We traveled in a comfortable pioneer coach.
At Lake Bigler, we fished and sailed on the lake.
We hunted for hours in the woods.
In the evening, we danced.
I enjoyed myself greatly.
But my illness got worse.
A tourist at Lake Bigler
recommended a cold sheet bath.
I never refused a remedy.
At midnight, when it was very cold, I undressed completely.
I covered my body with a wet ice cold sheet.
I kept the sheet on my body for a long time.
It was the worst experience of my life.
The wet ice cold sheet made my blood freeze and made my heart stop.
I thought it was time for me to die.
Never take a sheet bath.
Never.
This is my advice to everyone.
My condition got a lot worse.
Other people recommended other remedies.
Not one of these remedies cured my cold.
After a week at Lake Bigler, I decided to go to Steamboat Springs.
I thought that the hot baths there were good for my health.
They were not.
While I was at Steamboat Springs, I tried several different remedies.
But I just got worse and worse.
I was desperate.
I finally decided to visit the city of San Francisco.
The day I arrived, a woman at the hotel told me to drink a bottle of whiskey every 24 hours.
A dear friend who lived in San Francisco recommended exactly the same thing.
A bottle of whiskey every 24 hours.
That's two bottles of whiskey.
Well, I am happy to say that this San Francisco remedy finally cured my cold.
A city is born.
A Spanish explorer, Gaspard de Portola, discovered San Francisco Bay in 1769.
And he built a Presidio there.
At the beginning of the 1800s, San Francisco, then called Yerba Buena, was a sleepy Spanish village.
There was a Presidio, a Spanish church called Mission Dolores, and some simple homes.
There were a few ships in the Big Harbor.
With the discovery of gold in 1848, everything changed.
San Francisco suddenly became a busy city.
In only one year, its population went from 1,000 to 30,000.
Settlers came from all parts of the world.
There was a population explosion in California.
The new settlers needed all types of things from the industries on the east coast.
The Sea Route from New York to San Francisco became an important one.
The city of San Francisco became the most important settlement on the Pacific coast.
The city and its port were full of life.
The gold miners often went to San Francisco to sell their gold,
to buy supplies, and to have fun.
Those were exciting times.
San Francisco today.
Today, San Francisco is a beautiful metropolis by the bay.
It is an international, commercial, and banking center.
People from all parts of the world live and work there in harmony.
San Francisco has always been a friendly city.
Each year, thousands of tourists visit its unforgettable attractions.
There is a big, colorful Chinese neighborhood called Chinatown.
North Beach is the old Italian settlement with typical Italian food shops and cafes.
Music, art, and theater are an important part of life in San Francisco.
There are several excellent museums and universities.
The city is built on steep hills.
This fact gives it unusual beauty and extraordinary views.
The architecture is a mix of modern skyscrapers and Victorian buildings.
The gold rush days are over now, but San Francisco is still an exciting place.
From this valley, they say you are going.
I will miss your bright eyes and sweet smile.
For I know you are taking the sunshine that has lighted my pathway a while.
Come and sit by my side if you love me.
Do not hasten to bid me adieu.
But remember the Red River Valley and the one that has loved you so true.
Does remember the Red River Valley and the one who has loved you so true.
Music, art, and theater are an important part of life in San Francisco.
In the cavern, in the canyon excavating for a mine.
Well to minor a 49er and his daughter Clementine.
Of my darling, of my darling, of my darling Clementine.
You are lost and gone forever, dreadful sorry Clementine.
Drove she ducklings to the water every morning just a night.
Hit her foot against a splinter fell into the foaming brine.
Of my darling, of my darling, of my darling Clementine.
You are lost and gone forever, dreadful sorry Clementine.
There's a churchyard on the hillside where the flowers grow and twine.
There grow roses amongst the moses for delight like Clementine.
Of my darling, of my darling, of my darling Clementine.
You are lost and gone forever, dreadful sorry Clementine.